# Linking Pore Network Structure to Preferential Pathway Development: Differential Evolution & Shortest Path Analysis
## Project Overview
This project is searching for a quantifiable relationship between pore network structure and velocity distributions. With a known percolating pathway, the project compares the shortest path, using Dijkstra’s algorithm (weighted by various structural attributes), to determine the level of overlap or accuracy. To employ Dijkstra's algorithm on my pore networks, I used the NetworkX library function: dijkstra. If a path is highly accurate then the weighting scheme used to produce it is said to be influential on the development of preferential flow pathways. The structural attributes explored include: arc length, Euclidean distance, minimum thickness, mean thickness, maximum thickness, long & thick channels, widest bottleneck, Quino (exp(-1/mean thickness)), channel curvature, channel straightness, channel volume, aspect ratio, Poiseuille ratio, and node degree.

To search through what combinations of these structural attributes produces an accurate shortest path, this project employed differential evolution – a genetic algorithm - using the SciPy.optimize library function: differential evolution. This algorithm will continuously change the weight multiplied against the structural attribute value to make it more or less impactful to the overall weighting scheme, comparing each population member to find the “fittest” or “most accurate” weighting scheme. 

With the project aim defined, let's explore the repository contents. 
## Machine Learning
Here's the buzzword you were looking for! The actual machine learning/genetic algorithm action takes place in the Differential_Evol_and_Shortest_Path_Analysis.py and TestingTiers.py files. The former contains the find_path function I created that performs differential evolution on the pore network weighting scheme by testing the accuracy of the shortest path analysis output. The latter is where the samples to be tested & validated are defined and where the find_path function is called.

When I say "tiers" I am referring to different levels of preferentiality of the pathways. If the contents within the percolating pathway have a higher velocity than the mean velocity of the sample, they are more preferential relative to a percolating pathway with velocities closer to or even below the mean velocity of the sample. Tier 0 is not preferenital, Tier 1 is neutral, and Tier 2 is highly preferntial. This can be better seen in the Histogram of Sample Tiers.png file where each tier is marked. Note that in that histogram the x-axis is Percolation Threshold (PT). A PT of 1 means the velocity in the preferential pathway is the same as the rest of the sample, a PT of 2 means the velocity in the preferential pathway is double the mean sample velocity, and so on. If you'd like to explore the sample details further, each tier has its own .csv file with all the percolation threshold information.
## Sensitivity Analyses
There are five sensitivity analysis Python scripts included and each is accompanied by an HTML file explaining the outcome of the experiment. The experiments ran included: Initial Condition, Recombination Constant, Strategy, Seed, and Link Function. The first four were conducted to determine the appropriate input parameters for the differential evolution function. The Link Function experiment tested 9 different link functions to change the objective function. A link function is commonly used in generalized linear models to make equations non-linear. They were used here to add complexity into the originally simple, linear combination of structural attributes.